src/articles/nft-article-test.md, before:

---
title: 'What is fxhash ?'
date: '2021-10-20'
description: 'What is fxhash ?'
---


::tezos-storage[optional descriptive text]{address="KT1RJ6PbjHpwc3M5rw5s2Nbmefwbuwbdxton" key="741172"}


| Syntax      | Description | Test Text     |
| :---        |    :----:   |          ---: |
| Header      | Title       | Here's this   |
| Paragraph   | Text        | And more      |

When $a \ne 0$, there are two solutions to $(ax^2 + bx + c = 0)$ and they are
$$ x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a} $$

$$
L = \frac{1}{2} \rho v^2 S C_L
$$

Go to [Duck Duck Go](https://duckduckgo.com)

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pDp8erQM_0>

<https://open.spotify.com/track/6cnfseLPZpaPq53XYw6NIv?si=82d2a4523f71470c>

::embed[caption]{href="https://open.spotify.com/track/05NcFvbmsIEHSSiu0YN8HU?si=78764c3a8bc743fa"}

::embed[caption]{href="https://open.spotify.com/playlist/37i9dQZF1DWU4EQPjP9ZpS?si=ff161188db8c452c"}

::embed{href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hmn1qFwtNl8&ab_channel=INASoci%C3%A9t%C3%A9"}


# Table of Contents


# What is fxhash ?

**fxhash** is an open platform where artists can mint Generative Tokens which are stored on the [Tezos](https://tezos.com/) blockchain. Generative Tokens are programs designed to produce random outputs. Once a Generative Token is enabled (*when the artist decides it*), anyone with a tezos wallet can mint its own unique iteration of the Generative Token. Each iteration produces a unique piece that is stored as a NFT on the tezos blockchain. The NFT are FA2 compliant, which means that they can be exchanged like any other NFT.


# Control left to the artists

The philosophy of fxhash is simple: provide tools so that generative artists can have a space in which they can mint their pieces meant to be generative. **No curation, open to everyone**.


# What happens when we mint one iteration of a Generative Token ?

A random hash is generated, and injected into the project provided by the artist. Then, the project is stored immutably on the blockchain. This design ensures that each token generated is **independant**, **self-contained**, and **immutable**. If fxhash were to go down, owners of fxhash tokens could still open their tokens and see it in their own browsers. Also, virtual galleries can safely display the tokens as real-time art pieces as the token is simply hosted on the IPFS network.


# Join the community !

[insert an empathic speech about the importance of a community]
[insert donation link to become rich]
[assert that this is a joke JIC] 


# Special thanks

Thanks to [tztk](https://tzkt.io/) for providing a **free API** to query the tezos blockchain !

Thanks to the team behind [SmartPy](https://smartpy.io/) for their awesome tool to write contracts in meta-Python, as well as providing some **invaluable help** when facing issues while using their tools. A lot of love ❤️ towards their efforts.

Commit message:

feat(article): add table element, handle TAB / UP / DOWN, selection and alignement

src/articles/nft-article-test.md, after:

---
title: 'What is fxhash ?'
date: '2021-10-20'
description: 'What is fxhash ?'
---


::tezos-storage[optional descriptive text]{address="KT1RJ6PbjHpwc3M5rw5s2Nbmefwbuwbdxton" key="741172"}


| Syntax       |    Description |      Test Text |
|:-------------|---------------:|---------------:|
| Header       |          Title |    Here's this |
| Paragraph    |           Text |       And more |

| Bad       |          Table |    How does it work |
| Paragraph    |           Text |       And more |

When $a \ne 0$, there are two solutions to $(ax^2 + bx + c = 0)$ and they are
$$ x = {-b \pm \sqrt{b^2-4ac} \over 2a} $$

$$
L = \frac{1}{2} \rho v^2 S C_L
$$

Go to [Duck Duck Go](https://duckduckgo.com)

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pDp8erQM_0>

<https://open.spotify.com/track/6cnfseLPZpaPq53XYw6NIv?si=82d2a4523f71470c>

::embed[caption]{href="https://open.spotify.com/track/05NcFvbmsIEHSSiu0YN8HU?si=78764c3a8bc743fa"}

::embed[caption]{href="https://open.spotify.com/playlist/37i9dQZF1DWU4EQPjP9ZpS?si=ff161188db8c452c"}

::embed{href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hmn1qFwtNl8&ab_channel=INASoci%C3%A9t%C3%A9"}


# Table of Contents


# What is fxhash ?

**fxhash** is an open platform where artists can mint Generative Tokens which are stored on the [Tezos](https://tezos.com/) blockchain. Generative Tokens are programs designed to produce random outputs. Once a Generative Token is enabled (*when the artist decides it*), anyone with a tezos wallet can mint its own unique iteration of the Generative Token. Each iteration produces a unique piece that is stored as a NFT on the tezos blockchain. The NFT are FA2 compliant, which means that they can be exchanged like any other NFT.


# Control left to the artists

The philosophy of fxhash is simple: provide tools so that generative artists can have a space in which they can mint their pieces meant to be generative. **No curation, open to everyone**.


# What happens when we mint one iteration of a Generative Token ?

A random hash is generated, and injected into the project provided by the artist. Then, the project is stored immutably on the blockchain. This design ensures that each token generated is **independant**, **self-contained**, and **immutable**. If fxhash were to go down, owners of fxhash tokens could still open their tokens and see it in their own browsers. Also, virtual galleries can safely display the tokens as real-time art pieces as the token is simply hosted on the IPFS network.


# Join the community !

[insert an empathic speech about the importance of a community]
[insert donation link to become rich]
[assert that this is a joke JIC] 


# Special thanks

Thanks to [tztk](https://tzkt.io/) for providing a **free API** to query the tezos blockchain !

Thanks to the team behind [SmartPy](https://smartpy.io/) for their awesome tool to write contracts in meta-Python, as well as providing some **invaluable help** when facing issues while using their tools. A lot of love ❤️ towards their efforts.
