README.md, before:

# fxhash front-end

This project is the front-end of [fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz/).
The front-end uses [Nextjs](https://nextjs.org/), a React framework.
If you want to contribute, being familiar with React might be required. However, Nextjs is pretty easy to pick-up knowing React ! Just get familiar with the basic concepts in their doc and you're good to go.


## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/fxhash/fxhash-website
```

Go to the project directory, and create a `.env.local` file with the following content:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ROOT = https://api.fxhash.xyz/graphql
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_INDEXER = https://indexer.fxhash.xyz:4001/
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_FILE_ROOT = https://file-api.fxhash.xyz:4004
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZKT_API = https://api.tzkt.io/v1/
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_CAPTURE = https://europe-west1-centering-helix-329717.cloudfunctions.net/dev-local-fxhash-web-capture

NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED = 0

NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_DISCORD = https://discord.gg
NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_TWITTER = https://twitter.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_INSTAGRAM = https://instagram.com

NEXT_PUBLIC_MAX_FILESIZE = 15

NEXT_PUBLIC_RPC_NODES = https://mainnet.api.tez.ie,https://mainnet.smartpy.io,https://rpc.tzbeta.net,https://teznode.letzbake.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_NET = mainnet

NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_ISSUER = KT1AEVuykWeuuFX7QkEAMNtffzwhe1Z98hJS
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_MARKETPLACE = KT1Xo5B7PNBAeynZPmca4bRh6LQow4og1Zb9
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_OBJKT = KT1KEa8z6vWXDJrVqtMrAeDVzsvxat3kHaCE
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_USERREGISTER = KT1Ezht4PDKZri7aVppVGT4Jkw39sesaFnww

NEXT_PUBLIC_BETA_MODE = on
NEXT_PUBLIC_GT_MIN_PRICE = 0

NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_APP_ID = 6N9LMRLY02
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_KEY = e6c2e443d04ecb3ce097de0f1648cb57
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_INDEX_GENERATIVE = fxhash-generative-tokens
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_INDEX_MARKETPLACE = fxhash-offers

ANALYZE = false

NEXT_PUBLIC_BANNER_MESSAGE = <span><strong>Warning</strong>: fxhash is in BETA mode. More by clicking this banner</span>
NEXT_PUBLIC_MAINTENANCE_MESSAGE = Deploying new backend architecture
NEXT_PUBLIC_MAINTENANCE_MODE = 0
```

This will set the front-end to run against the main fxhash API and the contracts on the **mainnet** so **BE CAREFUL**. If you buy a token using this front-end running on your local machine using your wallet, it will be **as if you ran the same operation on the official website**.

> Currently this project runs against the mainnet, but at some point I will set up some backend on the testnet for a better dev experience.


## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.


## How to contribute

* create a branch to implement a feature or fix a bug
* when done, push the branch to the git repository
* create a pull request
* I will review it and merge it eventually.

If you find a bug with the front end, you can create an issue.

### Stack used

* [nextjs](https://nextjs.org/) / [react](https://reactjs.org/)
* [typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
* [css modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) (with sass)
* [taquito](https://tezostaquito.io/) to interact with the blockchain
* [ApolloClient](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) to run graohQL queries (both durring SSR and on the client-side), and handle the store (client-side)

### Project structure

* `/articles`: markdown files, generated in html at build time, they populate the `about` tab of the website
* `/components`: reusable components used multiple times in the app
* `/containers`: bigger *building block* components. They often use multiple components and have some more complexe logic
* `/pages`: the different pages of the website (see nextjs doc)
* `/queries`: graphQL queries (not all of them are in there, to be done)
* `/services`: modules to interact with external services
* `/styles`: the generic styles of the app
* `/types`: type definitions
* `/utils`: general-purpose utility functions

Commit message:

📝 removed NODE_TLS_INSECURE + added yarn install

README.md, after:

# fxhash front-end

This project is the front-end of [fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz/).
The front-end uses [Nextjs](https://nextjs.org/), a React framework.
If you want to contribute, being familiar with React might be required. However, Nextjs is pretty easy to pick-up knowing React ! Just get familiar with the basic concepts in their doc and you're good to go.


## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/fxhash/fxhash-website
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

Create a `.env.local` file with the following content:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ROOT = https://api.fxhash.xyz/graphql
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_INDEXER = https://indexer.fxhash.xyz:4001/
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_FILE_ROOT = https://file-api.fxhash.xyz:4004
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZKT_API = https://api.tzkt.io/v1/
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_CAPTURE = https://europe-west1-centering-helix-329717.cloudfunctions.net/dev-local-fxhash-web-capture

NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_DISCORD = https://discord.gg
NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_TWITTER = https://twitter.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_URL_INSTAGRAM = https://instagram.com

NEXT_PUBLIC_MAX_FILESIZE = 15

NEXT_PUBLIC_RPC_NODES = https://mainnet.api.tez.ie,https://mainnet.smartpy.io,https://rpc.tzbeta.net,https://teznode.letzbake.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_NET = mainnet

NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_ISSUER = KT1AEVuykWeuuFX7QkEAMNtffzwhe1Z98hJS
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_MARKETPLACE = KT1Xo5B7PNBAeynZPmca4bRh6LQow4og1Zb9
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_OBJKT = KT1KEa8z6vWXDJrVqtMrAeDVzsvxat3kHaCE
NEXT_PUBLIC_TZ_CT_ADDRESS_USERREGISTER = KT1Ezht4PDKZri7aVppVGT4Jkw39sesaFnww

NEXT_PUBLIC_BETA_MODE = on
NEXT_PUBLIC_GT_MIN_PRICE = 0

NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_APP_ID = 6N9LMRLY02
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_KEY = e6c2e443d04ecb3ce097de0f1648cb57
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_INDEX_GENERATIVE = fxhash-generative-tokens
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALGOLIA_INDEX_MARKETPLACE = fxhash-offers

ANALYZE = false

NEXT_PUBLIC_BANNER_MESSAGE = <span><strong>Warning</strong>: fxhash is in BETA mode. More by clicking this banner</span>
NEXT_PUBLIC_MAINTENANCE_MESSAGE = Deploying new backend architecture
NEXT_PUBLIC_MAINTENANCE_MODE = 0
```

This will set the front-end to run against the main fxhash API and the contracts on the **mainnet** so **BE CAREFUL**. If you buy a token using this front-end running on your local machine using your wallet, it will be **as if you ran the same operation on the official website**.

> Currently this project runs against the mainnet, but at some point I will set up some backend on the testnet for a better dev experience.


## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.


## How to contribute

* create a branch to implement a feature or fix a bug
* when done, push the branch to the git repository
* create a pull request
* I will review it and merge it eventually.

If you find a bug with the front end, you can create an issue.

### Stack used

* [nextjs](https://nextjs.org/) / [react](https://reactjs.org/)
* [typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
* [css modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) (with sass)
* [taquito](https://tezostaquito.io/) to interact with the blockchain
* [ApolloClient](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) to run graohQL queries (both durring SSR and on the client-side), and handle the store (client-side)

### Project structure

* `/articles`: markdown files, generated in html at build time, they populate the `about` tab of the website
* `/components`: reusable components used multiple times in the app
* `/containers`: bigger *building block* components. They often use multiple components and have some more complexe logic
* `/pages`: the different pages of the website (see nextjs doc)
* `/queries`: graphQL queries (not all of them are in there, to be done)
* `/services`: modules to interact with external services
* `/styles`: the generic styles of the app
* `/types`: type definitions
* `/utils`: general-purpose utility functions
